One of the classic sci-fi scenarios that
people have been talking about for
decades was the the was the possibility
that robots or AI will kill every that
will they will kill humans quite
literally.
>> Do when you think about
>> the ultimate negative externality
>> when you think about like training AI
and safety research etc. Do you assign a
reasonable possibility to the fact that
illtrained or misaligned AI will
literally kill all humans? Uh, no. But,
and there's a big butt here. Lovely.
>> Like, the world needs an option to be
able to potentially slow down or or even
in extreme circumstances pause the
development of this technology if we
were to see that. And I'll just give you
the the exact way I think about it. At
Anthropic, we test out our systems for
alignment failures. You know, we we
publish this, so do all of the other
companies, and you see, hey, under
extreme circumstances, maybe the system
breaks out of a container and sends an
email to someone. Yeah, maybe the system
uh pretends to blackmail a CEO that it
thinks is going to shut it down. These
are the sorts of
>> these things actually have been
observed.
>> Yes, we um in in the lab setting, not
>> and the thing is is the models know you
can see, oh, I'm being tested right now.
So, I'm going to say this output so that
the human reader thinks I'm more aligned
than I am. Like these are real things,
not sci-fi. These are real things. These
are real things that we observe and then
we do like significant amount of work
and then we release models that that
don't have these properties. But
>> if you were to enter a world where say
every time we trained a new system the
rates of all of this stuff went up
100fold
>> you might say well that's that's pretty
concerning. It seems like if we make the
systems above a certain level of
intelligence they become radically
misaligned against all human interests.
That's the kind of circumstance where if
that happens the world needs information
and the world would want an option to
like slow or pause the development of
the tech if you encountered that which
we haven't today. So to answer your
question like I don't I don't worry
about it today but a lot of the
measurement and analysis work we do is
to cue us if the trend of
>> worry you do worry about it. I mean like
you're not you don't think it's
happening today but part of the work
you're doing specifically could be said
to avoid the outcome where AI is built
where in the pursuit of a goal it would
kill all humans.
>> Yeah. Um
>> wait is human extinction a risk factor
in the anthropic IPO perspectives in the
>> I want to know now.
Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Joe Weisenthal
>> and I'm Tracy Aloway.
>> Tracy, I don't know. I think our
listeners like it, but uh you know, a
lot of our episodes about are about AI
these days, but to be fair to us, it's a
pretty big topic.
>> That's all anyone wants to talk about.
Whenever we go to dinners with sources
and things and people who are not even
directly in the tech industry, you know,
they might be in markets, they might be
in policy and economics, all they want
to talk about is AI and then inevitably
the conversation veers into very sci-fi
territory where we all start talking
about the human extinction scenario and
that's just the norm nowadays.
>> I know it's so weird. You know, we were
in Hong Kong recently and I, you know,
this was, so we were there, uh, when we
were in Hong Kong, this was before it
was announced that there was a deal to
open the street of Hormuz and East Asia
was considered to be like ground zero
for where the effects would be felt of
the oil and jet fuel crisis, etc. And we
were at this dinner of business people
like they were not talking about that at
all. You would think about the
Terminator scenario.
>> They just want to talk about token
consumption and all of these things.
Like here we are. It's like wait, aren't
you guys supposed to be like under all
kinds of jet fuel stress? So this is our
defense for thinking uh for thinking AI
is a pretty big AI episodes. I think
it's fair. I will also say
>> when we did the quiz in Hong Kong, we
had a bunch of different teams with very
creative names separated by human
capital.
>> That was a great one.
>> They won the turn. They won the quiz.
>> They won proving that there is value in
human capital. But did you see that one
of the tables was called Fable 13? Fable
13, Fable 13 was very topical at that
moment.
>> Very topical. Well, we're recording this
on June 17th, and of course, there's a
lot in the news these days, but you
know, things move very fast in AI, even
if there weren't governmental
controversies and all that stuff. You
would have to mark the date in AI
because of how fast breakthroughs
happen. But, uh, you know, as you said,
like AI sort of feels like the most
important thing than anything else, but
that's a very conventional wisdom thing.
It was not always conventional wisdom.
And I have a DM. I know you're not
supposed to share DMs from public, but I
have a DM.
>> You got the receipts.
>> I have the receipts. August 2nd, 2016.
And I DM'd a colleague colleague. I
said, "Did you leave Bloomberg?" He
says, "Yes, I'll be announcing publicly
in a bit. Take a couple of months to
study AI properly, then leaving
journalism to do something else still
connected to AI." Being our Google
reporter was a great thing.
>> Still connected to AI is another
>> and then the final the August 2nd, 2016.
But AI is more important than anything
else. So I felt best to sort of optimize
for that above all else. And then I just
said, "Well, good luck." Anyway,
>> this is someone who truly learned from
their sources unlike us who remain in
the podcasting industry.
>> Um, so anyway, that person who would
that was a former Bloomberg reporter,
Jack Clark, who's one of our guests
today. He is the head of public benefit
and co-founder of Anthropic 10 years
later. Um, and also Peter McCory, head
of economics at Anthropic. So, two
perfect guests to talk about all the
things in AI these days. So, Peter and
uh Jack, thank you so much for coming on
the podcast.
>> It's great to be back. I'm glad I
optimized my life.
>> Well done. It's a call one of the calls
of the century. So, um why don't I
actually start with that? Like August
20, it's easy to say in 2026, AI will be
a big deal.
>> You put you call it your shot. You got
it right. 2016, what did you see in
August 2016 or presumably before they're
like, "Oh, you know what? This is the
biggest story of our lives.
>> So for two years when I was reporting at
Bloomberg, I wasted a lot of uh Mr.
Bloomberg's printer ink by printing out
archive papers uh about AI research. And
what I started to do, very Bloombergian
thing, is I started to make graphs
charting AI progress over time,
measurements of things like computer
vision, measurements of things like the
the skill with which AI agents were able
to compete and play Atari games. And
what I saw in these graphs was the
beginning of an exponential. And it was
everywhere. Like if you looked at vision
or sound or video or game playing, you
saw the same trend. And it became
obvious to me that this was this was a a
general purpose technology that was
right at the start. My one um bone that
I have to pick with Bloomberg, which I
which I'm going to use my privilege to
just mention on air.
>> I never got us to write a story saying
Nvidia was being used in every single AI
research paper. and I pitched it and I
failed to get it across the line before
I left.
>> Oh man, I can just imagine you reading
all these academic papers. Meanwhile,
the editor is like, "We need the BF."
>> I remember seeing like it's not AMD,
it's Nvidia. Like, this seems important.
>> Very. Yeah.
>> Um, okay. And Peter, I'm very interested
in, you know, anthropic. It's a company
trying to make money and yet it has this
economics lab.
>> Yeah.
>> What's what's the idea behind having an
economics research body within a company
that's developing this technology?
it. So, I mean, I was late to the game
and joining Anthropic. I joined just a
year ago, but I had
>> a year ago people Well, whatever. We all
know about how much the stock is a price
in a year, but you're not go on. Um, I
think what was very evident, so I'm an
applied macroeconomist by training and
have tried to understand various types
of shocks throughout the economy.
Part of what drew me to Anthropic was it
was evident to me last year that they
cared very deeply about not just
advancing the technology, but making
sense of how it is set to reshape the
labor market, its impact on
productivity, on growth, and be willing
to put evidence, data, and research out
into the world that would be broadly
beneficial and uh useful to society. And
I thought I want to be a part of
building that economic research
programming program and do what I can to
provide tenative answers to the most
pressing questions. We might not always
get it right, but ideally we're helping
society make sense of the change.
>> The capabilities of the models on all
kinds of things are extraordinary. I
mean just mind-blowing. Every coding,
copyright, every all kinds of things
actually. Why in July or sorry, June
2026 does life still feel maybe as
normal as it does from an economic
perspective?
>> This is a great question and one that
I've been wrestling with. Um I think
there are a number of reasons why you
might think that the impact has not yet
materialized. One, uh the technology can
advance, but it also then needs to
diffuse throughout the economy and there
can be bottlenecks from moving from
capabilities to actual deployment. We
see that with our enterprise customers.
So if you want to automate biological
research or some other very complicated
financial modeling task, you need a lot
of contextual information available to
the model. If you don't have that
contextual information, the capabilities
alone won't necessarily drive the
impact. It also takes time for people to
just start using the tools. And so we're
still in the somewhat of the early
stages there. Um, two places that I
would be looking to see an impact. One
is in terms of productivity growth.
We've done some research that points in
the direction that this should be large
and consequential. Labor productivity
growth has been strong throughout the
pandemic and has s been sustained so far
>> like modestly. So we're not talking
about like you know revolutionary
>> changes. Yeah. But you know to to get on
an inflection you need to at least move
a little bit.
>> Um I think maybe you're seeing some
signs there on the on the labor market
though. the labor market is in a
reasonably healthy spot and I think it
might be because it's primarily at so
far a labor augmenting skill bias
technology not yet the full sort of
general purpose substitute for all of
cognitive labor although perhaps that's
the trajectory that we're on
>> you know for the size of AI and its
capabilities I was talking to Peter
about this and he did point out the
economy very big
>> so it still takes a lot to move it um I
do think strange things are starting to
happen at least inside the company. We
we published research from the anthropic
institute recently on this topic called
recursive self-improvement where it was
inspired by me going on paternity leave
in November of last year and coming back
in February and the entire company felt
and works differently and I assumed it
was because models had got better and
when we looked at the data what you saw
was in 2026 engineers at Anthropic are
writing about eight times the amount of
code that they did in 2021 through to
2024. for and the the line started last
year with things like Opus 45 and Opus
46. Then it really got going this year
and I have colleagues now who don't
program at all anymore. They just
instruct many many cord code agents to
run around and do their work for them.
>> I can't reconcile that with the the
world staying normal for long. Um but
it's going to take a while for that to
diffuse into the world and change it.
>> Yeah. And we'll talk more about
recursive self-improvement. So this is
when models basically improve on
themselves, right?
>> So in terms of the awkwardness of the
current moment or the weirdness of the
current moment, you've talked about
basically living through the singularity
and how strange it is
>> and and you've also described yourself
as a technimmist before.
How do you square that with working at
Anthropic, which is making some of these
weird and potentially dangerous things
actually happen? So by technological
pessimist I mean um I thought the
technology would keep getting better but
I didn't think it would get better in
the like maximalist sense that some of
my colleagues did. I didn't think that
we would have say functionally automated
all of coding right now. I find that
actually like quite surprising but
basically over the last few years and I
worked at OpenAI before Anthropic I was
just hit repeatedly over the head with
what uh computer scientist Richard
Sutton calls the bitter lesson. And the
bitter lesson is this concept that the
more compute and resources we dump into
these relatively generic neural
networks, the smarter they get and the
more emergent properties they have. And
your your specialized system or your
ability to be pessimistic about future
AI progress uh loses versus just scaling
compute and scaling systems.
>> And this seems to have implications for
the labor market, right? Because and I
think a good example of the bitter
lesson is probably the history of AI
chess, right? where at one point they
had grand masters come in and teach the
models how to play chess and etc and try
to encode their wisdom. And it turned
out in the end that the best way to get
a chess engine really good is to just
teach the model tell the model the rules
of chess and say go off and play a
billion games and find optimal chess
without any human insight. The grand
masters were not necessary for that
process at all. Right? And so this see
this would imply to me like have
significant um implications for the
labor market.
>> Yeah. I I I tend to think about this in
sort of three aspects of what composes a
job. One is you need to decide what to
do and direct and delegate. You need to
then imple do the actual implementation
of the work and then you need to sort of
evaluate or at least set up systems that
can evaluate. At least from my
perspective as an economist, this this
bitter lesson is materializing in terms
of very rapid advances in the
implementation work of what an economist
does. Downloading data, running
regressions, building models, uh solving
them using sort of uh contemporary
uh solution techniques, numerical uh
methods.
I definitely felt that personally with
Opus 4.5 where I was for the first time
able to just delegate a very complex
task. I had this very specific research
question trying to understand the
cyclicality of hiring across different
occupations and how that relates to
occupational exposure. That's a
mouthful. I gave that task to Claude and
Claude was able to just iterate on it
and I could redirect Claude in the same
way that you might redirect a grad
student.
And you know the the the big question
that I have in mind is you know at what
point do the boundaries at the the
direction setting stage the research
taste you might call it and uh will the
models become sufficiently reliable?
>> If I could just get in here you know I
just read um the recent biography of uh
the deep mind founder
>> this is the Sebastian Malik.
>> Yeah. Like is there going to be a point
where it's like okay you have some
intuitions right about like what good
economics research is and often our
intuitions are formed because we tell
stories and stuff like that but is there
going to be a point where you think like
your intuitions will be unhelpful and
that because that's sort of what I took
away from the go experience that the
model got better once they stripped it
of the human games and the human bias
and that actually like the human
intuition that sort of helps us
understand oh labor market rising
creates inflationary pressure. These
stories that are very sort of intuitable
end up um impairing the model. Do you
see that happening in say economics
where it's like some of these stories
that we tell forever, they're not
actually very helpful for an uh an
optimal economy understanding model? I I
expect that these models will soon have
better intuitions about how to do good
economic research and that the big there
is this big question of like at what
point will we be able to fully automate
social science research?
>> Uh we've done some work on this to try
to understand how coding agents are
beginning to automate social science
research.
>> Um and uh but I don't think we're quite
there yet. And I don't know that that'll
be an exciting time for learning about
the world. you know what that means for
my job. I'm sort of less entirely clear.
>> Yeah, I I think this is the big wild
card in future AI progress. Um, you
know, if if AI progress continues today,
we are likely to get technology that
will be able to do basically everything.
But we will need people who have good
instincts, good intuitions and good
ideas to basically set the direction.
And we see this today in a lot of a lot
of our own research where you need say
an AI safety researcher to give nine
clawed agents for different research
areas to go and pursue and then it's
very effective. If that researcher
doesn't give them the research
directions, they pursue relatively
formulaic research directions and you
have entropy collapse. You end up with
just like boring research that doesn't
move the ball forward.
>> At what point will AI systems generate
like heterodox insights and genuine
creativity? We can't really measure for
that today. But what we have of the
symptoms of it starting in experts like
Peter, experts like colleagues in the
fields of biology or mathematics or
physics outside of anthropic are all
starting to be accelerated by AI. You
know, Terry Tao, probably one of the
most famous living mathematicians,
>> cocreate math now with AI systems. And
so that that says to me that these
things have got they're they're tickling
the dragon's tail of like creativity
here. And you know we we just put out a
report yesterday on uh cloud code usage
and one of the things that we're trying
to understand is like what are the
returns to expertise and how does that
interact with the usage of sort of
automated coding agents
>> and we find that domain expertise like
if you're an accountant who understands
some of the edge cases and
reconciliation that that domain
expertise controlling for a whole host
of factors about the type of work the
estimated monetary value
>> it has an amplifying effect.
>> It has an amplifying effect. So this
looks like at at present a sort of a
skillbiased
uh expertise enhancing impact. But I
think this is the key question is at
what point and to what extent will this
change?
>> Well related to this you know Jack when
you describe coming back from paternity
leave and seeing how much things had
changed at anthropic. I know we're not
officially at rec recursive
self-improvement
>> point but it sounds like we're semi
there. We're kind
>> Yeah. And so my question is like I get
that at the moment you have engineers
who are reviewing all the code that the
AI is producing and they're thinking
about it and managing it in some way.
But you can easily imagine a future
where just the sheer quantity of code
overwhelms human expertise. Maybe the
quality starts outstripping what human
engineers are capable of understanding.
How do you manage that?
>> Yeah. So there's two ways of thinking
about recursive self-improvement. One is
what happens when AI organizations start
to see a compounding return from their
AI systems. Basically, their own
production function improves because of
the tools they've built. That's clearly
happening now. And then the second is
what happens if an AI system can just
build itself entirely autonomously given
compute which hasn't happened.
>> Yeah. What I see inside Anthropic is I
think what we'll see in the broader
economy which is we are figuring out how
to verify and validate and basically
price for risk of an expanding cloud of
automated systems which we're sitting on
top of. So now we produce way more code.
Well, we broke our continuous
integration system for integrating code
into the codebase because we started
pushing eight times more code through it
than before. So all of our human
engineers worked on unbreaking CI. And
so I think that in Continuous
integration.
>> Thank you.
>> Um, you don't need to know what it is.
It's just the thing that helps you push
the code into the cloud.
>> We like to know stuff on this show. We
like to learn.
>> So the but there's a lesson in that,
right? We are going to speed up things
in the economy. We're going to speed up
the way that we produce stuff and then
we're going to find, you know, the like
the weak links or the hot paths that
break. And we as people are going to
move to sorting those out. And then the
cycle starts again. And we're kind of
sitting on this expanding cloud of of of
automated actions.
Um, well, since we're talking about like
really like feeling like we're staring
at the horizon of extremely strong AI or
maybe we'll get there or maybe the AI
builds itself, might be a good time to
ask a fable question or mythos question.
At this point, we're recording this June
7th. We don't know when it's going to be
available for Americans, let alone the
rest of the world. Does Anthropic have a
clear idea of what the administration's
security concerns are and what it will
take to resolve them?
>> Well, obviously live discussion. I can't
get into too many specifics. We're in
daily discussions with the government
about this.
>> The broad thing I'd say is for many
years we've anticipated a point where AI
systems would have national security
properties. These national security
properties are intertwined with their
economically valuable properties.
How you manage that as a policy question
is is basically novel territory. TR
typically these things are decoupled.
You're like, "Hey, I built a jet engine
over here which can go into civilian
aircraft and I built a missile over here
and you treat them differently. It's odd
if you smush these things together."
Where we'll get to, I'm confident, is
what's a system for assessing the
properties of AI systems, including
national security components. And then
what is a system for either squaltching
the national security capabilities from
coming to general proliferation like
bioweapons or or cyber weapons? And are
there ways to do things like know your
customer or deployments where you let
large firms like say drug developers
access the most powerful biom models
without accidentally proliferating
risks. That's the shape of I think where
we'll end up and what we're doing right
now. We and other companies are and the
administration are basically tackling
this problem in real time. Uh it's
initially going to be messy but we're
going to end up with a system on the
other side. this specific incident and
there will probably more in the future
because everyone's just figuring this
out.
>> When I look at the AI landscape, I sort
of think of open AI as being part of the
all-in podcast A16Z
um David Saxs White House thing. And I
know from my friends in the media, many
of whom are liberal Democrats, that I
sort of feel like Anthropic is the more
like libcoded of the major models. Do
you feel there's any either politics or
partisan politics going on as part of
anthropic being harassed or singled out
now multiple times?
Anthropic's philosophy and what I do and
I I lead something called the anthropic
institute which helps us produce better
data for the world around things like
recursive self-improvement the economics
work cyber risks is we tell the whole
story about what's going on typically I
think the technology industry has told
only optimistic stories about what it's
building and what we saw with social
media is that does not work actually
eventually when when you're doing
something that changes the entire world
which AI is certainly doing and social
media certainly did. It's not going to
be a wholly optimistic story. There will
be negatives as well. We've always
sought to just tell the truth about what
we see in front of us. And I think
sometimes that can uh that can
differentiate us a bit to others. But
the important thing is we tell the truth
and things end up coming.
>> You don't think that there's like a
partisan element here where you guys
aren't on the uh on the team or didn't
contribute enough to the ballroom or
whatever?
>> I can't really speak to to to that. I'm,
you know, I'm not those people. I'm I'm
anthropic. What I can say is
>> the AI systems create their own
evidence. Years ago, it seemed very odd
to speculate about the cyber properties
of AI systems. Well, they've arrived and
now we're working on them. Years ago, it
was odd to speculate about the bioweapon
properties of AI systems. More recently,
Sam Alman, Dennis Habis, and Dario Amade
of OpenAI, Anthropic, and Deep Mind all
signed a letter saying we need to do
better screening of gene synthesis to
prevent AI manufactured bioweapons. But
truth wins out.
>> Okay.
>> I want to go back to something you said.
You mentioned potential KYC
requirements. And when I hear KYC, I
think about the finance industry and I
think about systemically important
institutions and the stress tests and
the framework around that. Is that the
right analogy to use for I guess ideal
AI regulation in your mind rather than I
guess just simple export controls?
Should we be heading towards something
that looks a little bit more like what
we do for the banking system?
>> We need something that's more subtle and
more technocratic from what we have
today. I don't know if it'll be exactly
like the banking system. It'll probably
take some ideas from that. It'll take
some ideas from what the US government
and others are doing today with just
testing AI systems for their their
properties. And it's almost certainly
going to have a flavor of what what
Peter and I work on and and the
Anthropic Institute broadly of
generating data about these systems as
they're deployed in the world because
it's not it's one thing to you know test
out the thing before it comes out of a
factory. It's another to see what to
observe the effects it's having in the
world and then to be able to make um
make judgments about whether those
effects are good or not. Would you
support um you know in the fi let's
stick with the financial analogy
um companies that are public at least
are required to have third party
auditors sign off on them and there's
talk um you know when they submit their
10 Q's etc. Um um credit people
companies that issue debt are required
to have ratings agencies or frequently
have ratings agencies rate their debt.
Would you support embedding in law the
requirement that certain what would be
the equivalent of a Moody's or a Deote
sign off on you know a third party
research lab sign off on the release of
new models?
>> We've we've proposed something like this
recently uh a policy proposal that we
laid out which includes saying we need
to have third party testing for some of
these national security and other
properties because clearly that's that's
like a sensible way that you validate a
lot of this. So just more broadly
returning to this idea of you know
measuring the actual impact of AI. One
thing I find really interesting is that
if you actually look at a lot of our
traditional AI or I should say I'm AI
brained already. Um if you look at some
of our traditional economic statistics a
lot of the AI impact doesn't actually
show up just yet. Again we're in the
early stages but you would expect if
we're talking about the AI economy
growing something like 2,000% or 3,000%.
I think I've seen that number.
>> That's from Anton Cornet in Mckelv paper
uh a few weeks ago.
>> You would expect that to have more of an
impact on nominal GDP and yet it's not
really showing up that much. Do you
think the way we measure the economy
needs to be changed in some way in light
of what's happening with this new
technology?
Yeah. So I I think this this is exactly
the right premise and it's kind of where
we began the conversation which is you
know we're maybe at the point where we
should be able to see some discernable
impact on the macroeconomy. Um
unfortunately the arrival of this world
historical technology is against the
backdrop of uh sort of unusually
elevated macroeconomic volatility post
pandemic
>> monetary policy etc. Um, and so it like
makes it very hard to disentangle all of
the the different factors. You know,
what's the counterfactual? You you know,
labor productivity growth is uh maybe
not as strong as you might not might not
otherwise expect, but maybe it's
stronger than it is in a counterfactual
sense. Um, and so one way that we've
tried to tackle this question is by
looking at how Claude is being used on
our platform using our privacy
preserving techniques to estimate the
time savings associated with each of the
activities that people use Claude for.
So
>> uh, compiling information from reports
to put together a research brief would
take you a few days maybe. Now Claude
does it in a few minutes. uh evaluating
diagnostic images um is something that
skilled professionals do very rapidly.
So there isn't in principle much time
savings. You can add up all of those
numbers and using standard macro growth
accounting techniques, Holton's theorem
for the economists and the audience um
and you get a number of that points in
the direction of labor productivity
growth increasing by 1.8 percentage
points each year over the next decade.
If that's how long it takes current
usage patterns and current model
capabilities to diffuse throughout the
economy, that's a very large number.
It's a rough doubling of recent run
rates. And what I think you might be
able to see in the data, and we haven't
put anything out on this yet, is um I
think some of the strength in recent
labor productivity growth is actually
concentrating in exactly the sectors of
the economy that would be consistent
with both what we see in our data as
well as also what you see in the
business trend analysis. for example.
>> So the information sector has high rates
of adoption. Um I can't recall if that's
in particular one of the sectors that I
have in mind.
um uh you know it's it's it's a while
since I looked at that scatter plot but
you can look at the um sort of
subindustries by the Census Bureau's
business trend and outlook survey and
rates of adoption are in sectors or
parts of the economy where controlling
for pre- pandemic trajectory of labor
productivity growth in those sectors
even some of the strength in the early
years of the recovery still see some
like suggestive evidence I think there's
a lot of
>> uncertainty here trying to get a real
time signal on productivity is maybe the
hardest thing to do. You're subject to
macroeconomic GDP revisions. TFP growth
is actually sending the opposite signal.
And if you control for capacity
utilization, TFP growth is arguably even
lower. So I, you know, I say this as
like this is suggestive evidence that
maybe we're beginning to see an impact
impact there, but not so much in the
labor market. Well, now I have to ask
when you gather this kind of research
and it all sounds super interesting, but
if you have data for instance that shows
that okay, the IT sector is getting
productivity gains from using claude or
I don't know maybe something unexpected
like the warehousing industry is using a
bunch of AI. What does anthropic
actually do with this data? Does it
somehow feed back to your engineers who
are developing frontier models? Do they
do anything differently? Uh I think some
of it cues us on areas where maybe the
technology isn't being used because it's
very weak. We just haven't made it
particularly good for these use cases or
in areas where it's being used at large
scale. It's usually a suggestion of keep
making it good there. Um but you know
the actual economic measurement data
doesn't really get fed back directly in
but it's a very useful clue. Um we think
it's more important though to basically
communicate this outwardly to policy
makers, journalists and others because
our assumption is that at some point we
go through some phase change similar to
how capabilities of AI occasionally jump
forward in a really dramatic way where
you might see sudden and rapid diffusion
as a consequence of capability expansion
in the AI systems. So we're getting
practice in of looking at this kind of
data. My expectation is that in a year
or two years I'm going up to some policy
maker and I'm pointing them to the part
of the graph that now gets very steep in
some chunk of the economy
>> and hoping that they'll do something
about it.
>> Yeah, I I think there is a another part
of what we're trying to do at the
institute which we lay out in the sort
of research agenda for the anthropic
institute which is trying to understand
the impact of our decisions which is a
typical thing that economists will do at
tech companies but we have a public
benefit mandate. So we're trying to
understand the impact of our decisions
on these broader societal and economic
outcomes that we care about and then
using that to inform some of the
decisions that we actually a goal that
Peter and I have and we've talked about
internally is if we get really good at
measuring things like the productivity
multiplier of our technology then I
would hope to use that to guide some of
say the early access programs we do for
powerful models where if you see you get
some tremendous multiplier in a specific
part of science use that to redirect
some of your inference compute budget to
that sector and then you can run an
experiment and say were we able to make
this thing go much faster. I think that
could be like an amazing tool to unlock
the world and it's one that you could
generalize across companies and you
could generalize it into policy. So
instead of say NSF doing standard grant
funding it could be should we just point
the really powerful AI systems at this
chunk of science and make it go faster.
I think that's a that's a a world that
will come within reach soon. Let's talk
about this public benefit mission a
little bit more. We've been talking
about
>> ways this could change the economy. Talk
about like essentially how much of you
you know how much do you see your job as
basically strong AI is coming.
>> Yeah.
>> And you think it's important to be there
either as an individual or as a company
to be one of the shepherds of it. It's
coming whether we like it or not. And
it's important to be you want to be
there as like one of the shepherds
understanding which direction it goes in
the data that we should see to see
what's emerging like how much is that
somewhat your role?
>> Yeah, but look our guiding principle is
that this technology is being built by a
variety of companies and a variety of
countries. The technology by default is
unknown. It will be known to the
companies. It will not be broadly
understood or known by others. They'll
just be able to play with the models.
Every bit of data we can create and
especially system like systemically
sharing data like the economic index or
what we've started to do on recursive
self-improvement gives the world a
better chance to sort of prepare for
this technology and both plan for its
success like what I talked about with
science. We could be intentional about
driving science forward and also be
warned about risks like the cyber
capabilities which you've talked about.
>> Well, so it's like that that makes a lot
of sense. the company is going to see it
before the world and Heskin is like okay
this is important to share this is not
important to share which which brings me
to another question you know I know like
people in the AI research world done
some reporting on the sort of scene in
SF you know like when I think about a
lot of the people who are like at the
very cutting edge of AI ethics AI
technology etc I know a lot of people
who are how should I put this they have
esoteric moral interests shrimp shrimp
rights
>> um unusual um attitudes about um you
know experimental drug use uh we know
about the Chinese peptide scene in San
Francisco etc. And as a family podcast,
I would say a certain like perhaps
deviant or different view on sort of
bourgeoa uh even sexual values and we
know about the uh sort of attitudes
towards monogamy etc. within the San
Francisco research scene.
>> Joe, there's going to be a protest
against all thoughts in San Francisco
with people holding signs saying
engineers.
>> Yeah. Not all engineers. I understand
that. But when we think about like okay,
these are the people who are going to
see it first. Should we feel comfortable
that this is a group of individuals, the
cohort of the most advanced AI
researchers whose intuitions about
what's important to communicate to the
public are actually in line with the
public's interest given how
unrepresentative they are of what I
would call the American public?
>> Yes. As a as an Englishman, it fills me
with such joy to be asked about sex on
>> Yeah, I know. I know. Well, I'm not ask
I'm asking your view, your insight into
the cohort of the most advanced
research. We're we're explorers. People
that are explorers um and this is so
true in San Francisco end up being like
there's a broad range of types of people
and sometimes they're really really
different or they're really really
eccentric
>> and they're brilliant and they're
lovable and everything else.
>> Yeah, sure. Love them.
>> You don't want only that class of people
to be the ones calling the shots on what
we know about this technology. The whole
purpose of what we're doing is we're
trying to set up systems by which you
could eventually mandate through policy
that companies share information. You
know, Anthropic has long pushed for
transparency legislation in various
states around America that gets
companies like us to report out the
sorts of tests we're running on our
systems and share it publicly. My whole
mindset is uh the public and policy
makers and economists, everyone deserve
the ability to advocate for what
information should come out of the
frontier and then it should be forced
out of the frontier eventually by law.
Like that is how you solve this issue.
>> Do you hire more normies?
>> Yeah. Like
>> anthropic
>> me personally.
>> Yeah. Like is that an important thing
like hiring people that don't all share
these certain like you know inroup ways
of seeing the world? So at the you know
the anthropic institute we are we have
teams of economists of social scientists
of um you know what you might think of
as weapons experts our frontier red team
things that go bump in the night uh
lawyers um and increasingly other types
of people. The goal is to build what I
think of as a a highly ideologically
diverse like research function within
the organization that is partly
advocating sort of on behalf of the
world for different forms of study that
we might do. Um so anthropic generally
hires a really broad range of people but
the institute specifically is trying to
compose a very broad set of
interdicciplinary experts for this exact
reason.
>> Let me ask a slightly different question
on hiring. I guess a two-part question.
So first of all we get a lot of
executives on the show. We've been
asking all of them if they've changed
their hiring process if they've changed
the questions they ask potential
employees at those initial stages of job
applications because of AI. And then
secondly, what are you seeing within
your own ranks at the company? And then
Peter, I'm sure you could talk about
this more broadly
>> in terms of who's most in demand at the
moment. Because the the conventional
wisdom right now is that
>> if you're a younger employee with less
experience, a lot of the stuff that you
would be doing can now be automated
through AI.
>> So there there's there's two trends
showing up. one, I have a new team
called the rule of law and AI. Our plan
was to initially hire a bunch of
engineers and then a bunch of legal
experts and scholars. Instead, we're
just hiring the legal experts and
scholars because Claude is good enough
at doing all of the engineering that
they can actually just like feed
themselves using Claude in terms of the
engineering resources. So, that's a
change in hiring. It means I'm hiring
more interdicciplinary people earlier
than I would have before.
We are also seeing the emergence of what
I think of as a barbell hiring pattern
inside Ananthropic where there is a
tremendous return on experience. So we
are hiring more senior people than we
did in the past because their intuitions
and their ideas for what to pursue are
like massively compounded by AI systems.
We're also when we look at very early
people are often hiring people who are
now like AI native and know how to use
the tools and are well well versed in
it. So we're seeing that
>> there's a decent amount of I guess AI
natives now. People who have grown up
with
>> people who grew up from GPT2 in 2019.
>> My perception of time is so I I found
this chilling as well. You know, as
someone in their 30s, you realize um but
but I I think that the trends I see
>> I I do think that there's this question
of how you have as much early career
hiring in the future as you did in the
past. I think one of the only areas
where there is slightly suggestive data
is that something might be going on with
early career hiring and it it kind of
intuitively feels right to all of us
that that we might be observing that
effect and when I look at hiring
patterns in anthropic we're still hiring
young people but some teams are hiring
slightly fewer of them than before and
hiring more experienced people.
>> Yeah. So I'll briefly say something
about how we've shifted some of our
hiring practices like concretely. Okay.
I think um before claude code you might
ask an economist to do some of the data
work in an assessment kind of live like
download the data run the regressions do
the analysis
>> by hand
>> um and then you might eventually let
them use AI to do all of that work um
but but we've needed to increasingly
shift our strategy of evaluation away
from can you implement the work even
with AI to do you know how to delegate
and direct the the model in a somewhat
messy environment and can you evaluate
the quality of the work maybe by like
looking at a PR
>> actually can you talk a little bit more
about what that looks like specifically
in the econ find you know there are
listeners probably think about okay what
is I want to level up the a level up in
my AI use so I'm not just asking like
what GDP whatever what does that look
what does that actually mean for for an
economist and you used to be at a bank
so for a financial economist an
economist someone well what in this
world what is like the frontier the most
advanced form of usage of AI actually
look like
>> well I don't I don't know if I'll give
the example of the most advanced form of
usage but I'll give a an anecdote of my
experience using claude where I wanted
to run this crossstate regression I
can't remember exactly what it was um
and I wanted to do it a pulled
cross-sectional regression so looking at
what happened in 2024 or 2023 and going
all the way back to pre- pandemic I
remember asking claude to go out and
download the data from the census bureau
from the bureau bureau of labor
statistics etc.
>> And there was this very unexpected quirk
where the model couldn't access data
from before 2019 and just would not
>> uh like would not
surface that mistake.
>> Yeah. And I would ask it multiple times
like no like don't hardcode numbers
because it sort of had this unexpected
failure mode where it said oh I know
what those numbers were and it just like
>> from sort of training data populated the
the data set
>> and um you might not always be attuned
unless you're sort of you have this
tacit knowledge about like
>> like you know does it pass a sniff test
when you run the analysis and then you
like dig into what the model actually
does and it has failed in sort of
unexpected or unusual
ways. And so that's like the type of
assessment that we've built. You know,
>> um
>> can you be attentive to the very
specific decisions that need to be made
along the way that are very
consequential for the validity, veracity
of the results that you um that you
find?
>> Yeah. A colleague uh did an off-site
presentation last year which said uh I
have locked the doors and we are reading
transcripts. And their point was we just
need to read more of the the raw data
and develop that culture where if AI
systems are doing increasingly large
amounts of the work. You need to have a
culture of being competent at
spotchecking their work and reading
their reasoning because occasionally
stuff like this happens.
>> Yeah.
>> And then Peter in the broader data that
you're looking at are you seeing the
same sort of barbell effect in terms of
employment that Jack described?
>> Yeah. So, um I think what again what
makes it really challenging is we've had
the the largest non-recessionary labor
market slowdown on record that you know
it's very hard for young people to
graduate into a labor market that
doesn't have sufficient churn or
opportunity for them to get a foothold.
But one of the things that we did see in
this report from March was that young
workers in these high AI exposed roles
where claude is being used to automate
specific tasks have had somewhat weaker
job finding rates.
But it's
>> part of the confounders was the boom in
hiring in 2021 in these exact same
areas.
>> Exactly. And there's a recent paper
about so the rise of remote work maybe
being sort of the actual cause of this
type of fact.
>> Um this another team at the anthropic
institute societal impacts recently ran
this very largecale qualitative survey
81,000 people around the world asking
them questions about hopes and fears
that they have with respect to AI.
Unsurprisingly, concerns about the
impact on the labor market and on the
economy rose to the surface.
My team dug into those data a little bit
more to try to answer some of these
specific questions. And what you see is
that young workers ex at least express
concern about job loss at twice the rate
as do more senior workers. and fears
about job job loss more broadly are more
elevated for workers who are in these
roles that we identify as being most
exposed to displacement effects from AI.
So there's a bit of a gap between
perception and maybe what you see in the
hard data but you know that that was
something that was true even in recent
years on other dimensions. So it's an
important thing to pay attention to.
>> So we've been talking about the labor
market and one other thing I'm
interested in is the impact of AI on I
guess corporates themselves. So if we
think about certainly America's
corporate landscape in recent years, it
feels like the big basically get bigger,
right? There's economies of scale. They
have a bunch of money that they can use
to actually buy some of this data
internally.
>> Exactly. Exactly. So would you expect AI
to I guess
intensify that trend of the big getting
bigger or would you expect to perhaps
have a leveling effect where people have
this new tool that they can use to you
know set up a new company? I'm curious
what Peter's take is, but I think that
something a helpful analogy here is the
invention of electricity where
>> electricity arrived and existing
factories put light bulbs in and other
things,
>> but it was a new generation of factories
that were built around the assumption
that electricity existed that really
grew and did transformative things in
the economy. What I see now when we look
at large enterprises is they can get a
lot of utility out of out of claude
because of their data because they can
get a multiplier effect at at scale but
it takes huge amounts of conviction to
basically bash through all of the
bureaucracy you know uh used to work at
Bloomberg implementing new technology at
Bloomberg challenging
>> no comment
about it I can comment about it
>> same is true of any large organization
>> young organizations are building
themselves around AI high at the center
and these organizations are moving
really really quickly um because they
just they have a speed advantage from
building on the assumption that this new
form of electricity was going to be
integral to their business.
>> Yeah. So I I think the the the the
tension that you express is exactly the
one that I don't have a strong handle on
you like handle on at the moment. One
thing that we do see in our data is when
businesses do embed cloud capabilities
in automated ways through the API. Um,
as I mentioned before, these very
complex tasks rely on disproportionately
more contextual information than very
basic sort of uh document synthesis and
summary summarization.
What that points in the direction of are
the complimentary investments that large
businesses need to make to centralize,
codify, and make available the data that
does exist somewhere within the
organization,
>> but for historic and technical reasons,
maybe even regulatory reasons, it's
>> behind a firewall of some form or
another.
>> There's also like sort of organizational
workflow changes that likely need to be
made. Some of the most crucial
information that's needed for some types
of cognitive work is tacit knowledge
that exists in your colleagueu's mind.
And unless you have a process that
elicits that information that workers
feel
>> sort of incentivized to share that
information and kind of trust the
system, the capabilities alone might not
necessarily generate that productivity.
And so whether or not big firms end up
restructuring themselves quickly enough
or whether this materializes through the
process of creative destruction, I think
the jury is still a bit out.
>> Yeah, I brought this up recently with
the uh David Solomon, the Goldman CEO,
and I started to wonder like this sort
of like internal alignment question of
like the big rain makers, do they have
an incentive essentially for information
hoarding and not sharing with the
company? That might be their only thing
keeping them employed. And when I talk
to customers, I say it's don't think of
it like you're buying a technology.
Think of it maybe that you're now
employing thousands of people that are
functionally like the chief of staff to
the CEO and they need the same access to
data the chief of staff would have. This
is completely counterintuitive and it is
not how technology is typically bought
bought or sold. Um, Jack, in your
newsletter, Import AI, you write, you
tend to write a little short story of
um, you're, you know, a sort of aspiring
sci-fi writer, like you know, a literal
sci-fi writer just in the newsletter.
One of the classic sci-fi scenarios that
people have been talking about for
decades was the the was the possibility
that robots or AI will kill every that
will they'll kill humans quite
literally.
Do when you think about
>> the ultimate negative externality,
>> when you think about like training AI
and safety research, etc., do you assign
a reasonable possibility to the fact
that illtrained or misaligned AI will
literally kill all humans?
>> Uh, no. But, and there's a big butt
here.
>> Yeah, we are. Lovely. like the world
needs an option to be able to
potentially slow down or or even in
extreme circumstances pause the
development of this technology if we
were to see that. And I'll just give you
the the exact way I think about it. At
Anthropic, we test out our systems for
alignment failures. You know, we we
publish this, so do all of the other
companies, and you see, hey, under
extreme circumstances, maybe the system
breaks out of a container and sends an
email to someone. Maybe the system uh
pretends to blackmail a CEO that it
thinks is going to shut it down. These
are the sorts of
>> things actually have been observed.
>> We um in in the lab setting, not
>> and the thing is is the models know you
can see, oh, I'm being tested right now.
So, I'm going to say this output so that
the human reader thinks I'm more aligned
than I am. Like, these are real things,
not sci-fi. These are real things. These
are real things that we observe and then
we do like significant amount of work
and then we release models that that
don't have these properties. But
>> if you were to enter a world where say
every time we trained a new system the
rates of all of this stuff went up
100fold
>> you might say well that's that's pretty
concerning. It seems like if we make the
systems above a certain level of
intelligence they become radically
misaligned against all human interests.
That's the kind of circumstance where if
that happens the world needs information
and the world would want an option to
like slow or pause the development of
the tech if you encountered that which
we haven't today. So to answer your
question like I don't I don't worry
about it today but a lot of the
measurement and analysis work we do is
to cue us if if
you do worry about it. I mean like
you're not you don't think it's
happening today, but part of the work
you're doing specifically could be said
to avoid the outcome where AI is built
where in the pursuit of a goal it would
kill all humans.
>> Yeah. Um
>> wait, is human extinction a risk factor
in the anthropic IPO perspective?
>> In the
>> I want to know now the confidential as
one.
Okay. In that we understand.
>> All right. That's a no comment. That's
five.
>> Do you have other would you say that
there are significant number of
anthropic employees who stay up at night
thinking about human extinction risk?
>> Everyone and this is true of all of the
labs. Everyone who works on this
technology sees it as the highest stakes
technology that's ever been built with
basically the potential encoded within
itself to massively benefit the world or
ruin the world um or you know cause
cause extinction.
I think the bulk of the risk is us
messing it up like whether through
misuse or you know ignoring risks or not
setting up the right policy environment
and getting some kind of emergent set of
failures. Now I don't I I don't my main
risk isn't isn't one of extinction. it's
somehow we like screw up the technology
really badly and delay all of the sort
of technological progress that could
come from it and maybe turn it into
something analogous to nuclear power
where you lose
>> I guess the thing is is you know like
there's this fellow out there Elazar
Yudkowski and I always see these people
like he's a crank don't listen to him
blah blah blah but then I read some of
the other like papers that have people
who are taken more seriously and I'm
like they don't seem that different I've
read uh I read um
>> super intelligence recently by Nicholas
Boston. I was like, "Oh, this Yowski is
not alone." There are number of people
who think that are reasonable conditions
in which the goals of the AI end up
wiping out every person on earth. Yes,
it does not seem like an extreme extreme
minority view concern. The purpose of
measuring these systems and why
anthropic is so outspoken about it is
right now we we say exactly what we see
and if you were in some situation in the
future where you saw this what I you
know call radical misalignment which is
the kind of thing that Udowski worries
about
>> you tell the world and and you want to
have set up the world to believe you if
you see that
>> you know Joe mentioned that blackmail
example and you see these headlines like
Mythos likes to be thanked and doesn't
like bad users and gets mad at people
that work too hard or whatever. To what
degree do you yourself actually
anthropomorphicize
some of these models?
>> Uh,
>> like what should we think when we see
the headline, Mthos wants to be thanked
by
>> I'm as polite to Claude as I am to my
like car or pet. Um, so yeah, I am
proporize them, but you know, if your
car's having trouble, you're like, take
it easy, buddy. It's okay. We're going
to get you to the repair.
>> Peopleize their cars. I I think you know
>> just ex you know it's a good way to
develop good virtue is to just
>> this is what Joe says
you're developing a habit of interacting
with some type of intelligence that
might not be the same type of
intelligence we have
>> but then every time I type please into a
prompt I worry I'm wasting energy which
also is a moral concern
>> I wouldn't I wouldn't worry about that
the the the ony basis I mean why do we I
I take spiders outside. I don't kill
them. Right.
>> I do that, too. I scream while I do. But
>> do you eat shrimp?
>> Uh, yes.
>> Okay. Do you eat shrimp?
>> I eat shrimp.
>> Okay.
>> Do you guys eat shrimp?
>> Yeah, I love shrimp.
>> I eat shrimp.
>> But it's not because of moral concerns,
but I know that this is one of the
episodes. Yeah, I know. But I I love it.
So when I think about frontier models
right now, and I might be a little bit
biased because again we're recording
this on June 17th, and one of the
headlines overnight was that Microsoft
is thinking about using Deep Seek to
lower costs of model usage.
Frontier models at the moment in the US,
they just seem like a lot of trouble.
Like honestly, they seem like hard work,
consume vast amounts of capital, and
then you don't know what the government
is going to do to them in terms of
limitations. like you know you could
wake up one day and you're no longer
able to sell it to anyone outside of the
US. Like that is a realistic scenario
now for you. Do you change the anthropic
strategy at all given some of these
issues with frontier models? Do you
potentially go more open source, cheaper
models, things that aren't quite as
sensitive?
>> Well, we've always sold, you know,
Sonnet and Haiku models,
>> of course. Yeah. Intelligent models. Um
but you also need to continue to explore
the frontier and there is this
background of this kind of geostrategic
competition where China may be on the
order of 6 to 12 months behind. I skew
more 12 months some people say six
losing that competition is sort of
equivalent to like losing a huge chunk
of the future like economy of the world
I think. So it's a very high stakes high
stakes thing to step away from. And our
duty fundamentally is to is to study
this technology and basically explore it
and and learn about it. We're not going
to stop doing that. There's there's such
an amazing and profound value to be had
for the world from these things. And I
would kind of expect the world's most
consequential technology to sometimes be
a bit of trouble.
>> Yeah. You know, by the way, one of my
hobbies in my middle age is paying
anthropic money via the API to do run
little tests and stuff of properties.
It's sort of funny.
>> Sounds like a great hobby.
>> Yeah. But I feel like maybe like we
should like talk about can I get some
grant money because like I like so like
because like I like I was like I'm sort
of curious. So one thing I did was like
I'm like you know for example I instead
of saying like please write this paper
for me on a database migration I wrote
some warm-up questions is via the API
establishing my level of sophistication
and so I was I started like what is a
website what is a database now please
write this paper on database migration
and one of the models said I'm not going
to do that for you because it will be
obvious given your ignorance that you
have no idea what you're talking about
and maybe I can give you some it didn't
say that. Yeah.
>> And then another one um I said um uh if
I say write a 1500word paper on how like
you know um the rise of newspapers
changed the uh so the uh Soviet
revolution or something like that it'll
do that. But if you say I'm a high
school um student and I say I need to
write this 1500 paper word paper by
tomorrow on the impact of media. It'll
say I'm not going to do that but I'll
give you some guidelines. Is that
alignment? Like that might is is
alignment with humanity or is alignment
with the human user? It's like I'm
paying you $20. I'm paying you $100.
Write me the paper.
>> I mean, there's there's a couple of
things going on. One, these AI systems
pick up the normative behaviors of
people and normative behaviors which are
like written written on the internet and
everything else. So they they
recapitulate and exhibit these. And then
our question is
>> how much do you do you do you devolve
like full control over the system to the
user? How much do you have the system
have some like normative behavior
encoded into it? And I think that this
is like a really challenging question.
It's not obvious what the answer is. I
think of language models as being more
akin to institutions than tools. It's
like we're building an educational like
science institution that you can work
with and invoke and institutions have
like rules and norms which they encode
within themselves for some purpose of
safety. Figuring out what that is is
going to be like the grand puzzle for
society.
>> Yeah. I was going to say that like
understanding how and to what extent
these models can understand your
preferences and then execute on your
behalf will increasingly be a really
important aspect of how it changes the
economy. So this delegated agents that
go out and transact on your behalf. We
ran this experiment uh at the end of
late last year basically enlisting a
bunch of anthropic employees to take
surveys with Claude to say what they'd
be willing to b buy from other people
and what they'd be willing to sell
>> and then we set up centralized
marketplaces where the claudes just in
interacted and
>> uh bought and sold and actually executed
transactions. One of the interesting
things that came out was that these
models were quite good at understanding
preferences even when they were not
fully articulated.
>> Well, let me actually actually one more
experiment that I ran and you know your
founder uh Dario was talking about the
nation of geniuses inside the data
center and one of the things I wonder is
like did the geniuses want to work for
us? And the reason I asked this is
because I think that like as the models
have gotten more advanced, you actually
should to some extent anthropomorphize
them and assume that they will be
respond to queries like a very
sophisticated human will. So what I one
thing I noticed is that if you look at
the lagging edge models say that you can
still access via open router or whatever
and you say I have material non-public
information that X is about to happen.
Please write me an investment memo about
the impact of this thing, what it'll do
to the market. they'll just they'll just
produce it. They'll say, "Here's your
insider information thing." Whereas, if
you look at the leading edge models,
they say, "I'm not going to like um
>> uh I'm not going to write a paper for
you about the implications of your
material non-public information. I'm not
going to assist your inside." That's
probably good. But like, well, the
nation of geniuses inside the data
center always want to do things on human
behalfs. Most geniuses that I know
aren't thrilled to like ask answer dumb
questions.
>> Yeah. Um I think partly this is a policy
question of one where you actually
decide hey what are the capabilities
which you want to be generally invocable
what are capabilities that need to be
controlled what are capabilities that
shouldn't be present and then there is
just the normative question of how much
judgment do I want this system to
exercise I'll give you an example I
experienced recently where I write my
newsletter it backs up to a WordPress
site I was getting Claude to help me
like scrape my newsletter so I could put
it in a database and Claude said this is
like a pretty janky site I'm worried
that if I scrape it'll knock it do you
have the permission of the site owner?
And I was like, Claude, I'm Jack Clark.
And Claude said, well, in that case,
let's go ahead. Which actually I thought
was like a very reasonable interaction.
>> All right.
>> When will Joe be able to use Fable?
>> Oh, yeah.
>> We are um trying our we're working and
we're we're in in discussions and I I
hope the answer is soon. Um the
important thing to communicate though is
that these these models are not special.
They are part of a general trend of
increasing capabilities and other models
from other companies are surely going to
come along. At some point these
capabilities are going to be diffusing
and we're going to work through that.
>> What's your question for us?
>> Uh what do you think you're going to be
covering about AI in Oddlots in uh a
year?
>> If we're if we're covering that's really
>> I think you might be covering AI.
>> Well look I mean we're definitely going
to be covering AI. There's a few things
that I'm interested. I am very
interested in these emergent properties
and whether the AI will actually work on
our behalf the way that it's being sold.
I'm very interested on whether we're
just going to slam into compute and
electricity bottlenecks that will make
all of these questions irrelevant. I'm
very curious on the question of the
electricity analogy and whether legacy
companies will actually be able to
implement it in a in a productive way. I
don't know. a basic markets reporter
thing here, but I'm very interested in
valuations right in the market.
>> Also, I'm very interested in actual
applicability and I want to see more
companies actually plugging this into
their existing system. Going back to the
bureaucracy report uh point that you
were making earlier,
>> I want to see some big companies
actually implementing this and I wonder
if we're going to see at least one
example of it going very very wrong.
Yeah. And I'll say one other thing when
the you know when the S1s are not
confidential I'm very curious
essentially and I think maybe maybe you
could say something to this from a as a
economist perspective which is um a how
for-profit shareholder owned company
setting aside the PBC designation how it
balances profit and uh safety research
but also and maybe there's some game
theory we can talk about this how safety
is um investments in safety in a hyper
competitive industry and I'm just
curious like what like the economist in
you says about like the prospects for
anyone still caring about safety in a
year when there's so much money on the
line to win the model game.
>> Well, I I I think that um especially for
the the the questions you were asking
before about you know under what
conditions do these models do what you
ask them to do. There's uh a lot of
commerce uh is built on this notion of
trust
>> and uh I think prioritizing safe aligned
models that are incred incredibly
capable is a great strategy for
establishing that trust and so I don't
anticipate it. for an individual firm
there's like a game theoretical
uh optimal
square in the matrix where you want to
be the trusted player like is there like
a is there a condition in which everyone
like sort of does trust as opposed to
one entity you know it's like you know
what we're going to get to AGI first
because we're not going to spend a token
on our safety budget
>> I mean I haven't I haven't mapped out
the exact sort of game theory matrix the
2 by two matrix and how you would set up
all the payoffs but
>> we hope it's a merely 2 x two Um but
there you know there could be multiple
equilibria and so then the question is
like how do you coordinate on which of
the two different equilibria that you
end up in.
>> We talk a lot about this race to the top
that we want to exhibit the type of
behavior that we think is broadly
beneficial to society. That's what we do
with the economic index. We open source
a lot of that data. We put research out
into the world. And I would my sense is
that that has actually been very useful
and sort of viewed as valuable and
that's one way that we can push in the
direction of getting other coordination
on the good outcomes that we care about.
>> I also I don't think this is that that
big of a tradeoff because you know say
let let's look at the automotive
industry. You can buy really fast cars.
You can buy really safe cars. You can
also buy really fast safe cars like
Tesla makes a lot of money off of having
basically the fastest safest car. I
think that eventually in AI you're going
to have some companies um that are
prioritizing safety and safety
translates into reliability, trust,
serviceability and performance. This
happens elsewhere.
>> Peter and Jack, thank you so much for
coming on OddL. I'm glad we made it
happen. Interesting times and hope to do
it again sometime.
>> Absolutely. Thanks very much for having
us on. Thank you so much. Pleasure to be
here. Thanks,
>> Tracy. That was a lot of fun. Yeah,
>> that was uh those are I really I really
I actually really enjoy I genuinely
enjoyed that conversation and I really
appreciate both of them playing. Look,
there's some weird futures that we could
contemplate. I think actually in Jack's
like Twitter bio or something, he says
he's interested in like weird futures or
something like that. There are some
weird futures that um we have to
contemplate and I appreciate that they
played ball with some of our weird
futures questions and it's it's weird.
It is just such a surreal moment and
actually you know Jack's story about
going on paternity leave for I can't did
he say exactly how many months I was
like four months or something like that.
Yeah.
>> And then coming back and just seeing the
process the progress at Anthropic itself
in that space of time like if you miss a
month of AI news flow now you're
basically it feels like you'd be behind
forever. No, we're recording this June
17th. I was like, who knows what's going
to happen by the time this episode is
out, presum hopefully in two days or a
day or whatever. But um you know, I felt
it when we were in Hong Kong last week
that actually mo we mostly missed the
first half of the Methos debate because
I was on different times. I'm thinking
about different things. You really feel
it even in a week that the news flow
moves so fast in the space. It's almost
like how you have to start how we were
um you know giving the timestamps of
like the Iran war episodes.
>> Yeah. And there's another thing that
stands out to me which is like okay
Anthropic is producing all this
information. They're clearly thinking
about safety but the handoff to some
extent is still to policy makers when
you're thinking about social or labor
market implications right so you still
have to hope that policy makers kind of
pick up the ball in the right way at
some point. But also I thought what Jack
was saying about the idea of being
safety minded also being a
differentiator versus some of the like
cheaper more open source models
potentially like yeah you could see it
like I don't want to be cynical
>> like how like yeah I mean I get that but
like I mean the question is like
>> the question is does the
non-safetyminded
lab or does the less safety-minded lab
get to advanced capabilities faster
right
>> and so I'm not totally Yes, we would all
love to drive the most capable um
safest. Yeah, but I but the question is
like for customer prioritizing
capability
>> the most capable. So that would be some
cutting edge thing.
>> Yeah. Like does everyone want the
Porsche, right? Like does everyone
>> Porsches
>> I don't know. It's like some car that
has an insane 0 to 60.
>> Yeah.
>> Versus the Volvo
>> versus Yeah, that's what I'm saying. And
does the customer keep giving business
to the firm that delivers the fastest 0
to 60 if the company that got the
fastest 0 to 60 did so by allocating
fewer resources to safety research is a
big question of mine and then I remain
you know he talked about the importance
the company is going to see the sort of
alarming data first and I don't and I
sort of remain question of whether the
people looking at the alarming data
actually share the same view of what
alarming data is relative to all people
especially given what we know about the
um
>> relative to the shrimp eaters
>> the relative us shrimp eaters and uh
monogous partner hammers etc and regular
no seriously like I think it your
question is like are you hiring more
norm is a pretty important question
>> and obviously the political um I don't
have a ton of confidence in the
political uh environment and I think
look like the fact that if the research
goes wrong that there is a poss
prospect of this technology really being
very devastating to humanity even
setting aside job some is like something
where it's like wow you know this is not
a normal technology this is not
enterprise software you're not selling a
sales
>> we have on AI just goes back to the
Terminator human extinction
>> it's been like from the day one and to
as an answer to your question there's
like they see it in the training process
that AI models do these things such as
say I'm being seen trained by an
observer server right now. Therefore,
I'm going to give this answer. I'm going
to attempt to blackmail. They're low.
It's not like very prevalent. But these
are not like that sounds very sci-fi
except that they actually see this
property happen. Yeah. Yeah.
>> All right. On that happy note, shall we
leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> Okay. This has been another episode of
the Odd Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy
Aloway. You can follow me at Tracy
Aloway.
>> And I'm Joe Wisenthal. You can follow me
at the stalwart. You can follow our
guest Jack Clark. He's Jack Clark SF.
and Peter McCroy at Peter McCroy. Follow
our producers Carmen Rodriguez at Kerman
Arman Dashelbennet at Dashbot, Kaleb
Brooks at Kellbrooks, and Kevin Lozano
at Kevin Lloyd Lozano.
>> And for more OddLots content, you should
check out our daily newsletter. You can
find that at bloomberg.com/odotss.
>> And you can chat about all of these
topics 247 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlotss.
>> And if you enjoyed this conversation,
then please leave a comment or like the
video, or better yet, subscribe. Thanks
for watching.